[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: Now it turns out
I have a little bit of experience at
convincing everybody in
the world to do the right thing.
>> Audience: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: For example,
there's the JSON data interchange format,
the world's best loved
data interchange format.
It took a while to convince everybody but
eventually everybody got on board, and
the death threat stopped and
we're all happy about it now.
I'm very happy to report that this
took much less than a generation.
This is one of those very rare things
where we're able to move it in just a few
years.
So, if you look at Google Trends and
compare the trends of JSON versus XML,
you'll see that the world has
steadily been losing interest in XML.
Looks like that the years are chopped
off here but it's on the other screen.
Since 2005 the world has steadily
been losing interest in XML.
And we've slowly, quietly been
seeing interest in JSON creeping up.
And this increase was not
motivated by any industry.
There is no JSON industry
which drives this there,
because all the tools are free and
simple and so it's just happening because
you decided this is a better way of
doing things and so it's just taking up.
So I can't predict when these lines
cross over but Google can, so
looks like next year for sure JSON
becomes officially more interesting
according to Google than XML.
>> Speaker 2: But
in terms of use people who were
using JSON, as a data interchange
there's more people using JSON, right?
>> Douglas Crockford: I
have no way of knowing.
It seems like that to me too but-
>> Speaker 2: I think they're just
Googling XML because it's still difficult
and we don't have to Google a JSON so
often cuz it's easy.
>> Douglas Crockford: I think there's
a lot to it there, yeah, so a lot of.
If the search suggestions, XML sucks,
that's a popular thing,
you don't see that on JSON searches.
So there may very well
be something to that.
So I did not intend for JSON to be
the last data interchange format.
JSON was intended to do a very specific
thing of allowing applications written in
different languages to be able to
communicate with each other over
the Internet.
But JSON is now being used for
lots of other things,
things that it wasn't
necessarily designed for and so
I expect they're going to be
other data formats as well.
So, I have some advice to anybody else who
might be designing another data format.
Number one, please don't break JSON.
JSON is working really well for the thing
that it was originally designed for.
One of the best things that I did in JSON
was, I did not put a version number on it.
So there is no way to revise it.
We can't say JSON 1.1 because there
was no JSON 1, it's just JSON.
So the way it is,
is the way it will always be,
which is great because if
you look at the stack.
I expect over the years the stack is gonna
be changing all the time at every level,
except in the JSON layer.
The JSON layer will always work
the way it does right now.
And that's a pretty nice thing,
having that level of reliability,
the integrity and
anything in the net is huge.
I can't think of any feature we could add
to JSON which is more valuable than that.
So, if you want to make something else,
please make something else and
make it better.
But don't try to break JSON,
leave JSON alone.
>> Douglas Crockford: Whatever you're
gonna do, if you're gonna do something
that's kind of like JSON but different,
make it significantly better.
If it's just JSON with one or two little
things, then what you're doing is you're
adding a compatibility hazard to
the world, that people are gonna
have to deal with this thing which
is kind of like JSON but isn't.
And so there's a cost to that.
So make sure the cost is worth it, add
enough value to it to justify that cost.
And get a better name because no question,
the worst thing about JSON is the name.
For one thing people are confused
about how to pronounce it.
I say JSON, a lot of people say JSON,
it turns out the correct
pronunciation is JSON.
>> Audience: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: Everybody?
>> Audience: JSON.
>> Douglas Crockford: [LAUGH] Yeah, so
and I hear from guys all
the time named Jason saying,
I'm in the office and
I hear someone saying, what.
So, I'm sorry Jason if you're here.
I don't know what I was thinking, sorry.
So I've heard from guys named
Jason that threaten to make
new standards called Douglas, so
just to show me what it's like.
But again,
the worst thing about JSON is the name.
It stood for JavaScript Object Notation
and almost everything about that is wrong.
So I called it JavaScript
because I wanted to give credit
to JavaScript because that
is where the idea came from.
I didn't invent JSON, I discovered
it already in this language and
I was trying to give respect to it.
I was not trying to jump on JavaScript's
coat-tail because I'll tell you in 2001,
JavaScript was not a much loved language,
right?
In saying, I'm JavaScript, that's not
a way to get credibility from anybody.
I was just trying to be honest, I was just
trying to recognize where it came from.
But the name is problematic, for one thing
people still don't know what Java is
versus JavaScript, and
that stuff is still going on.
And also there is a confusion that,
so JSON only works with JavaScript,
no, that's not true, that was never true.
There is also a confusion that I guess
the JavaScript language standard is
what defines JSON and that was never true.
But there are all these confusions that
happened because I chose the wrong name.
>> Speaker 2: What should you have called
It?
>> Douglas Crockford: I don't
know.
>> Audience: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Douglas Crockford: That boat has
sailed, we're done.
Then there is object,
object here represents the way that
JavaScript thinks about objects right,
just a loose collection of key
value pairs, that's an object.
Which is not the way most languages
think about objects, right?
They have this more brittle thing, we've
got classes and instances, and so on.
So they get confused that we
can send them a JSON object and
they go that's not an object, yeah.
Notation, maybe that's okay.
So notation is bad.
So if you're going to make
up a new data standard and
I think you should, don't call it JSON.
Don't stick a letter in front of it or
a letter on the end of it or
anything like that.
Come up with some creativity,
do something good there.